<script>
if ('caches' in window) {
    caches.keys().then(function(names) {
    for (let name of names)
        caches.delete(name);
        console.log(`deleted ${name} from caches.`);
    });
}
</script>
# cloud-music 

## Computer music in the cloud by Michael Gogins. 

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/">
<img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" 
src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This 
work is licensed under a <a rel="license" 
href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons 
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License</a>.

This is real music. But it is not a streaming recording. It is not performed 
in a concert. These pieces are Web pages that are loaded from my Web server 
and run in your browser -- in _any_ standard Web browser, including mobile 
devices (at least, if they are powerful enough).

Each piece will play indefinitely. There may or may not be animated visuals 
along with the music. The listener may or may not be able to customize the 
piece -- perhaps quite a bit, amounting to a new piece, co-composed with me.

The underlying technology is my WebAssembly build of Csound with CsoundAC. 
Some pieces use third party libraries, especially [Strudel](https://github.com/tidalcycles/strudel),
a JavaScript port of the live coding system [Tidal Cycles](https://tidalcycles.org/).

- [Cloud Music No. 1](cloud_music_no_1.html), a piece that generates an 
  abstract flowing visual using a GLSL shader. Data from the moving image 
  is sampled to obtain musical notes, which are then harmonized using 
  chords, scales, and modulations generated by CsoundAC, and rendered as 
  audio using Csound.

- [Cloud Music No. 2](cloud_music_no_2.html).

- [Cloud Music No. 3](cloud_music_no_3.html).

- [Cloud Music No. 4](cloud_music_no_4.html).

<!--
- [Cloud Music No. 5](cloud_music_no_5.html).
-->

- [Cloud Music No. 6](cloud_music_no_6.html).

- [Cloud Music No. 7](cloud_music_no_7.html).

- [Cloud Music No. 8](cloud_music_no_8.html).

- [Cloud Music No. 9](cloud_music_no_9.html), a Strudel piece in an 
  alternative tuning system that uses Csound for synthesis, with a music 
  visualization written in GLSL. There is an embedded Strudel REPL that 
  allows the user to live code the piece, while showing an animated piano 
  roll display of the generated notes.

- [Cancycle](cancycle.html), a piece in three sections designed for live 
  coding; uses Strudel as well as chord spaces from CsoundAC.
 
### Other Pieces and Examples

- A [minimal example](minimal.html) that just plays an embedded Csound piece.

- A [Csound Player](player.html) that will play, and let you edit, any 
  Csound piece that you paste into the text area.

- [Message from Another Planet](message.html), a Csound piece with a basic 
  HTML user interface.

- [Strudel REPL](strudel_repl.html), exactly the same as the main Strudel Web 
  site.

- [Trichord Space](trichord_space.html), an interactive piece that displays 
  Dmitri Tymoczko's chord space for trichords, with the ability to perform, 
  hear, and visualize various operations on the chords in the space.

- [Scrims](scrims.html), a JavaScript piece that samples an animated WebGL 
  hopalong fractal to obtain notes that are then harmonized using CsoundAC's 
  chord space operations.

### Experiments

I am working on supporting the use of CsoundAC in the Strudel REPL. The most 
important thing is to import the `csoundac.mjs` module in your Strudel patch. 
To see how this is done, look at the following pieces. At the present time, 
these are also the unit tests for `csoundac.mjs`. Comments and suggestions are 
welcome.

- [CsoundAC Example 3](csoundac_example_03_acCT.html). This example subclasses 
  the StatefulPatterns class to generate the next iteration of the logistic 
  equation, a paradigmatic chaotic dynamical system, on each trigger; the 
  `pure` pattern acts as a clock that drives these iterations. Then, the 
  CsoundAC library defines a ChordPatterns class. Here, that is used to 
  progress between I and ii, and to transpose these chords in a stepwise way.

## cloud-music as a Studio and/or Development Environment

I have designed this repository not only to present some of my compositions, 
but also to serve as a development environment/computer music studio for 
working with Csound, algorithmic composition, and live coding in a 
_completely platform-independent way_.

A more complete description of the system is [here](cloud-5.html).
